---
layout: post
title: "Conceptual Programming with Python"
date: 2020-08-25 21:47:50
tags: python conceptual-programming
description: A quest to solve exercises, quizes, problems, and questions
---

I am starting a new project to work through problems from the book [Conceptual Programming with Python][1].[^1] I saw a video of Professor Thorsten discussing [recursion][2] [^2] and enjoyed his explanation. After watching a few more videos of Profesor Thorsten, I bought his book. 

The first problem, given the code below, what happens when you replace `and` with `&`? The authors challenge the reader to solve the problem without executing the code.

```python
def isEven(n):
    return type(n) == int and n % 2 == 0
```

The desired specification is to return `True` if the input is even and `False` otherwise. Replacing `and` with `&` will break the specification because `and` in python is a short circuit, boolean expression where the second expression is only evaluated if the first expression evaluates as `True`.

To verify my understanding, I searched for the difference between the two operators. Within the first link, I found a case that tripped me up. The example is shown below, adopted from the stack overflow question [*`and` (boolean) vs `&` (bitwise) - Why difference in behavior with lists vs NumPy arrays?*][3] [^3]

```python
mylist1 = [True,  True,  True, False,  True]
mylist2 = [False, True, False,  True, False]

mylist1 and mylist2
[False, True, False, True, False]
# I would have expected [False, True, False, False, False]
```

Coming from MATLAB®, I expected the same result expressed by the OP. The confusion lies with 
1. remembering `and` is not bitwise 
2. non-empty list evaluating to `True` 

Thus the entire expression `mylist1 and mylist2` results in `mylist2`.

---

<a href="https://github.com/bdatko/blog/commits/master/{{page.path | remove_first: '_posts/'}}">Post History</a>

## References

[^1]: "Conceptual Programming with Python - Thorsten Altenkirch and Isaac Triguero. Accessed 26 Aug. 2020."
[^2]: "Recursion “Super Power” (in Python) - Computerphile - YouTube. Accessed 26 Aug. 2020."
[^3]: "Python - and (Boolean) vs & (Bitwise) - Why Difference in Behavior with Lists vs Numpy Arrays? Stack Overflow Accessed 26 Aug. 2020."


[1]: http://www.cs.nott.ac.uk/~pszit/cp.html "Conceptual Programming with Python - Thorsten Altenkirch and Isaac Triguero. Accessed 26 Aug. 2020."
[2]: https://youtu.be/8lhxIOAfDss "Recursion “Super Power” (in Python) - Computerphile - YouTube. Accessed 26 Aug. 2020."
[3]: https://stackoverflow.com/q/22646463 "Python - and (Boolean) vs & (Bitwise) - Why Difference in Behavior with Lists vs Numpy Arrays? Stack Overflow Accessed 26 Aug. 2020."